Here again is the block diagram of a robot
joint control system. What we're going to
do now is to actually build a model for joint
2 of the PUMA 560 robot.
One of the advantages of the PUMA 560 robot
is that it's a very well-studied robot, and
many of the parameters of its controller and
of its mechanism are very well understood.
Here are listed a few of the important parameters
of joint 2 for this robot. We have the inertia
of the motor; we have the friction of the
motor, the motor torque constant, the amplifying
gain. That's the number of amps into the motor
for every volt applied to the amplifier. Finally,
the gear ratio for the second joint of the
PUMA robot.
I have just been entering the parameters for
our robot dynamic model into the MATLAB Workspace,
creating a number of variables. The last one
that I need to create is the gear ratio which
is 107.815 for this particular joint of the
PUMA robot.
Next thing I'm going to do is to invoke Simulink,
which is the MATLAB tool for creating and
simulating dynamical models. Invoked Simulink,
and here is the window which gives us all
the rest of the components of the models that we
need. I'm going to create a new model, and
here's the window in which I can create my
new graphical model.
Now, the first thing I'm going to do is to
add some continuous time dynamic blocks. The
first thing I'm going to do is to drag in the transfer function which is going to be our motor model.
Here is the block which is going to be our
motor, and I'm going to change the parameters.
The numerator in this particular case is the
variable 'km,' that's the motor torque constant,
and the denominator is a polynomial, and the
highest order coefficient is 'jm,' that's
the motor inertia followed by the motor friction
and followed by a zero. It is a second-order
polynomial. There we go.
Here, we have a block which represents the
dynamics of our motor. I'm also going to draw
in a PID controller, and that's it there.
I'm going to create a source. This is the
signal that I want the robot joint to follow.
I'm going to drag in a signal generator and
I'm going to set it to have a frequency of
0.5 Hertz.
That's one cycle every two seconds, and it’s
going to be a square wave and I'm going to
connect that to the reference input of my
controller. I'm going to set the controller
parameters a proportional gain of 1, integral
gain of 0, and so on.
Now we're ready to simulate the system. I'm
going to apply a square wave to the reference
input of my controller.
In the real robot, the output of the controller
is a voltage which goes to the motor drive,
which is effectively a big power amplifier,
and the output of that is a current which
flows into the motor. This block here represents
the dynamics of the motor, and the output
is the position of the motor. We can see the
feedback path. What I'm going to do is hit
the 'Play' button here, and Simulink is going
to simulate this dynamic model.
Here we see the output response. We can see
that the motor is responding in some way to
the square wave, which is being injected,
but we can see that it's very very oscillatory,
there's a lot of overshoot there which
is very undesirable.
We can adjust the parameters of the controller.
What I’m going to do is to add a little
bit of derivative gain, otherwise known as
damping.
If I simulated now, that's where the derivative
gain is set to a value of 0.1. Here we see
the response is much more desirable. We see
that the motor position is changing between
-1 and +1. That's exactly what this signal
generator is demanding. We see that there's
only a very small amount of overshoot. This
is not a bad robot joint controller.
We use a little bit of trial and error to
make this controller work well. Although it's
quite common practice to do this, a much better
approach is to design the controller that
requires we have a model of the system to
be controlled. In the case of the PUMA robot,
we do have a very, very good model of that robot, of its mechanical and its electrical components.
Then we need to have a specification for the
quality of control. How much overshoot are
we willing to tolerate? How quickly do we
want the robot joint to get to the desired joint angle?
Then we use well-known techniques from control
theory such as, 'Root locus method,' or
'pole placement' or 'LQR synthesis'.
There are lots of techniques in control theory.
Pick the one that you prefer, and you apply
that to design a controller. Perhaps it needs
a little bit of tweaking, perhaps because
the model that you're using doesn't exactly
reflect the reality of the particular robot
that you're working on, but you'll get a very
very good first approximation to a decent controller.
For a multi-joint robot like the PUMA 560,
a common strategy is what's called, 'Independent
Joint Control.' We design and build a controller
for each of these separate joints.
For economies of scale, it's common to use
the same design for the controller for each
of the joints. All that's different is some
parameters in the joint control algorithm
to reflect the fact that the joints have got
different dynamics. Perhaps they have different
size motors` with different inertia, different
friction characteristics, and so on.